In this lecture we will learn about several properties that CSF gives us to modify the style and display
of our table.
First we need to create an H-G M-L table that we can apply these styles to in order to see their effect.
We will start by adding opening and closing table tags to define our HVM table.
Next we will add in an opening and closing table row tag to add a row to our table.
Since this is the first row in our table we will use the table heading tag to add table headings for
the columns in our table.
We can then add another row to our table.
We will use the TDA tag to add cells to our table and we'll name our cells cell one cell 2 and cell
3 respectively.
We will add a third row to our table and add three more cells cell 4 cell 5 and cell 6 to see our table.
Let's go to the web browser and run our code
as you can see our three table rows are displayed on the web page.
Let's jump back to the editor.
Now that we have a table we can use some style properties to stylize it using the border property we
can add a border of a specified style with and color around each cell in our table and around the table
itself.
We will apply this style to the table so that there is a border around our table.
We will also apply this style to our table heading elements so that it is applied to each table heading.
Additionally we will apply this style to our table cells using the tag
then we will go to the web browser and run our code
noticed that currently the table has its border separate from the cell borders.
Let's jump back to the editor as we noted the table had its own border separate from the cell borders.
If this is not desirable we can use the border collapse property and give it a value of collapse.
We will assign this property to the table element.
Then we will go to the web browser and run our code.
Now you will notice that the table and cell borders are collapsed into one border.
Let's jump back to the editor.
We can give our table a width and height as pixel values or as percentages using the width and height
properties.
Let's give our table a width and height of 100 percent.
Then we will go to the web browser and run our code.
Let's jump back to the editor.
We can add a caption to our table using the caption tag.
Let's add an opening and closing caption tag and give our table a caption to see the caption we just
add it to the table.
Let's go to the web browser and write our code as you can see the caption is displayed above the table.
Let's jump back to the editor.
CSSA gives us the caption side property which allows us to specify where to place the table caption
of value of top we'll put the caption at the top of the table.
Let's go to our style code and give our caption a caption side property with a value of top.
Then we will go to the web browser and run our code
as you can see the captions at the top of our table.
The caption hasn't moved since the last example since Top is the default value of the caption side property.
Let's jump back to the editor and look at another example.
Assigning the caption side property a value of bottom will put the caption at the bottom of our table.
Let's change the value of the caption side property to bottom.
Then we will run our code in the web browser to see the change take effect as you can see the caption
is now at the bottom of the table in the next lecture.
We will learn about table alignment and see SS.